---
title: "TON-VIO: Online Temporal Calibration Networks Learning On-the-fly in Fast Motion VIO"
collection: publications
#permalink: /publication/2024-03-20-TON-VIO: Online Time Offset Modeling Networks for Robust Temporal Alignment in High Dynamic Motion VIO
excerpt: 'Temporal misalignment (time offset) between sensors is common in low cost visual-inertial odometry (VIO) systems. Such temporal misalignment introduces inconsistent constraints for state estimation, leading to a significant positioning drift especially in high dynamic motion scenarios. In this article, we focus on online temporal calibration to reduce the positioning drift caused by the time offset for high dynamic motion VIO. For the time offset observation model, most existing methods rely on accurate state estimation or stable visual tracking. For the prediction model, current methods oversimplify the time offset as a constant value with white Gaussian noise. However, these ideal conditions are seldom satisfied in real high dynamic scenarios, resulting in the poor performance. In this paper, we introduce online time offset modeling networks (TON) to enhance real-time temporal calibration. TON improves the accuracy of time offset observation and prediction modeling. Specifically, for observation modeling, we propose feature velocity observation networks to enhance velocity computation for features in unstable visual tracking conditions. For prediction modeling, we present time offset prediction networks to learn its evolution pattern. To highlight the effectiveness of our method, we integrate the proposed TON into both optimization-based and filter-based VIO systems. Simulation and real-world experiments are conducted to demonstrate the enhanced performance of our approach. Additionally, to contribute to the VIO community, we will open-source the code of our method on: https://github.com/Franky-X/FVON-TPN.'
venue: 'Preprint'
date: 2024-03-20
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/11037226'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2015). &quot;Paper Title Number 3.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(3).'
---
This article is aimed at addressing online temporal calibration in fast-motion visual-inertial odometry (VIO) systems. Unlike stable motion VIO, accurately modeling the time offset is significantly challenging in fast-motion systems. Fast motion not only enlarges the estimation drift caused by the time offset, but also introduces significant difficulties in time offset modeling. In this scenario, existing classic methods struggle to cope with the unknown time-varying time offset modeling problem. Meanwhile, current deep learning networks and training strategies incur high computational costs and lack generality. To address these issues, we propose lightweight online time offset modeling networks (TONs) for real-time temporal calibration. TON is a module for general VIO systems and improves the accuracy of time offset modeling in three ways: 1) for observation modeling, feature velocity observation networks (FVONs) are proposed, which compute feature velocity under unstable visual tracking conditions without relying on inaccurate inertial measurement unit (IMU) velocity propagation; 2) for prediction modeling, time offset prediction networks (TPNs) are designed, which learn the evolution pattern of time offset to overcome the constant value assumption in traditional approaches; and 3) for network training, an online weakly supervised training strategy is adopted. It uses partial results as weak labels from classic models to supervise TON online. Furthermore, cross-scene/vehicle experiments highlight TON’s effectiveness and generality in fast motion. Through online temporal calibration enhancement, our TON-VIO achieves average positioning accuracy improvements of 15% over optimization-based methods, 42% over filter-based methods on public test sequences, and 32% over optimization-based methods on self-collected datasets with raw timestamps.
